---
layout: post
title: Protogen
date: 2023-06-27
dateString: Spring 2022
categories: [React, TypeScript, Django, SQL]
description: An internal no-code prototype library that translates AirTable relational tables into SQL + Django with pre-built front-end/CRUD.
img: null
---

Protogen is an internal project built to streamline our team's capability in rapidly prototyping custom solutions for our clients. Specifically designed for use in manufacturing facilities, we aimed to customize software to cater to a diverse range of use cases put forth by our clients. However, we frequently faced capacity constraints due to the considerable time invested in constructing these custom solutions over our existing software base.

## Background

Working hand in hand with our CTO, we developed a no-code platform during after-hours for internal use. Protogen's solution transformed AirTable relational tables into an SQL database, which was further leveraged by a series of scripts to construct the necessary forms and pages using Django and NextJS. By implementing standardized forms and CRUD operations, our team could transition from an AirTable prototype to a fully deployed MVP on Vercel in less than 10 minutes.

Though an internal project, a similar application named Stacker was developed and launched publicly around the same period. Our unique implementation was better suited to our company's needs. By transitioning to SQL, we were not confined by the delay in response times when updating/requesting records via AirTable's API, which at the time stood between 5 to 10 minutes.

## Mission Statement

Our mission statement: To design a tool that enables rapid prototyping of custom solutions, taking our team from an AirTable prototype to a deployed MVP in under 10 minutes.

## Technology Stack

- SQL (Transferred from AirTable)
- Django
- NextJS
- React
- Tailwind CSS
- DigitalOcean

## Key Responsibilities

During the project, my key responsibilities included:

- **UI/UX Design**: I designed a user-friendly and intuitive interface to optimize the product experience.
- **Database Design**: I structured and optimized the SQL database for maximum efficiency and data integrity.
- **Product Design**: I played a pivotal role in conceptualizing and designing Protogen to address our company's unique needs.
- **Project Management**: I was in charge of creating and managing tasks and sprints, ensuring timely delivery of updates and features.
- **Co-development of Core Features**: I collaborated directly with the CTO to develop essential features of Protogen via Live Share (5-6 months)

## Conclusion

Protogen serves as a testament to our team's determination and ability to solve internal bottlenecks, providing an efficient solution to quickly prototype and deploy custom applications for our clients. The success of Protogen is reflected in the significant reduction of our team's time spent on building custom solutions, paving the way for more effective use of resources.