---
layout: post
title: OttoPlot
date: 2023-06-28
dateString: Spring 2022
categories: [Python, VEX, Houdini]
img: https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/540956958425874434/1017156721828966561/unknown.png?width=521&height=455
description: A generative AI project using Python, VEX, and GCode to process 3D objects into vector shapes and drawn with pen plotting machine.
---

OttoPlot is a creative, generative art project conceived to push the boundaries of my software development skills. Employing a pen plotting machine, Python, and Houdini (Python + VEX), the system processes 3D models into 2D representations and translates them into GCode - the language that CNC machines utilize. This GCode is subsequently transferred to the pen plotter, which diligently sketches the designs onto paper.

## Background

OttoPlot emerged from the desire to go beyond the typical web-app development work I was doing from 9-5 and explore generative art. This was an opportunity to revisit fundamental math and challenge myself to learn a new language (VEX).

### Mission Statement

To create generative art through creative programming, thereby transforming 3D models into unique 2D representations.

## Technology Stack

To ensure the flawless execution of this intricate process, a robust and specialized tech stack was utilized:

- Python
- Houdini
- Python (with VEX in Houdini)
- Pen Plotting Machine
- GCode

## Project Journey

OttoPlot's journey began with curiousity and exploration, during which I revisited basic geometry, algorithm design, and learned about GCode generation. This learning phase was instrumental in shaping the trajectory of the project and in setting a solid foundation for the development work ahead.

- Developing Python scripts to process 3D models into 2D representations.
- Learning and implementing VEX scripting in Houdini for advanced 3D model manipulation.
- Parsing 2D representations into GCode.
- Managing and calibrating the pen plotting machine to ensure accurate output.
- Refining the algorithm to optimize the aesthetic appeal of the final designs.

## Roles and Responsibilities

**Mathematical Modeling**: Developed and implemented complex geometrical and algorithmic models.
**Software Development**: Designed and wrote Python scripts for model processing and GCode generation.
**Machine Operation**: Managed the pen plotting machine, ensuring its calibration and correct operation.
**Aesthetic Refinement**: Iteratively improved the algorithm to optimize the aesthetic appeal of the final designs.
